.\" Process this file with
.\" $ groff -man -Tascii thrulay.1
.\" or
.\" $ nroff -e -man thrulay.1
.\"
.\" $Id: thrulay.1,v 1.2.2.2 2006/08/16 17:11:14 fedemp Exp $
.\"
.TH THRULAY "1" "Aug 16, 2006x" "thrulay"
.SH NAME
thrulay \- network capacity tester (client part)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thrulay [-h] [-v] [-b] [-D
.I DSCP
.B ] [-m#] [-t#] [-i#] [-w#] [-l#] [-p#] [-u#] [-T#] [-g
.I group] 
.I host
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thrulay
This is the client part of thrulay - a network capacity tester.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h"
Display help and exit.
.IP "-v"
Output version information and exit.
.IP "-b"
Busy wait in UDP test.
.IP "-D DSCP"
DSCP value for TOS byte (default: unset)
.IP "-m#"
Number of TCP test streams (default: 1).
.IP "-t#"
Test duration, in seconds (default: 60s).
.IP "-i#"
Reporting interval, in seconds (default: 1s). No effect for UDP tests.
.IP "-w#"
Window, in bytes (default: 4194304B).
.IP "-l#"
Block size (default: 8192B).
.IP "-p#"
Server port (default: 5003).
.IP "-u#[kMGT]"
UDP mode with given rate (default: off).
In UDP mode, rate is in bits per second and can be followed by a SI suffix
(k for 1000, M for 1000000); default packet size, 1500, can be changed with -l;
window size becomes the UDP send buffer size; reporting interval is ignored.
.IP "-T#"
TTL field for multicast (default: 1).
.IP "-g group"
Multicast group to send test data to.
.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports to thrulay-users@internet2.edu.
.SH AUTHOR
Stanislav Shalunov, http://www.internet2.edu/~shalunov/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR thrulayd (8)
