.\" Process this file with
.\" $ groff -man -Tascii thrulayd.1
.\" or
.\" $ nroff -e -man thrulayd.1
.\"
.\" $Id: thrulayd.8,v 1.2.2.2 2006/08/16 17:11:14 fedemp Exp $
.\"
.TH THRULAYD "8" "Aug 16, 2006" "thrulayd"
.SH NAME
thrulayd \- network capacitity tester (server part)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thrulayd [-h] [-v] [-a address] [-w#] [-p#] [-d] [-j group]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thrulayd
This is the server part of thrulay - a network capacity tester.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h"
Display help and exit.
.IP "-v"
Output version information and exit.
.IP "-a address"
Add an address to list of allowed hosts. This option can be used multiple
times. The argument is either an IP address or an address in CIDR syntax
(if you leave the netmask, it will be set to 32 for IPv4 or to
128 for IPv6 addresses). Examples for valid addresses: 192.168.1.3,
::ffff:192.168.1.3, 192.168.1.3/24, ::ffff:192.168.1.3/120.
If the server is started without this option, all hosts are allowed to connect
by default. If this option is used, only the specified addresses are allowed
to connect.
.IP "-w#"
Window, in bytes (default: 4194304B).
.IP "-p#"
Server port (default: 5003).
.IP "-d"
Debug mode. The program does not fork into background and all logging messages
go to stderr.
.IP "-j group"
Join a multicast group. If this option is given multiple times, only the last
group is considered.
.SH BUGS
Please send bug reports to thrulay-users@internet2.edu.
.SH AUTHOR
Stanislav Shalunov, http://www.internet2.edu/~shalunov/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR thrulay(1)
